---
id: 005
title: Migrate to Event-Driven Microservice Architecture
tags: [architecture, frontend]
createdAt: 2026-02-09T08:34:04.006Z 
---

# ADR-005: Migrate to Event-Driven Microservice Architecture

Status: Proposed
Scope: System



## Context
A cloud migration is the process of moving digital assets, data, applications, and other IT resources from one storage environment to a cloud storage environment. Companies typically conduct cloud migrations to move from private, on-premises servers to cloud servers, but a cloud migration can also involve moving from one cloud provider to another.Companies can also migrate to multiple types of storage environments, deploying what is known as a hybrid cloud strategy. A hybrid cloud is a type of cloud computing environment that combines elements of both private infrastructure and public clouds, such as using a combination of on-premises, private cloud, and third party public cloud services to manage company data, applications and workloads.

## Decision
A cloud-to-cloud migration occurs when companies migrate data between different cloud service providers, or when moving from their private cloud to a public cloud. This also includes migrating from platforms like VMware Cloud (VMC) on AWS to Nutanix Cloud Clusters (NC2). With enhanced new capabilities, Nutanix Move now also supports migrating workloads from VMC, Azure-native, and hosted VMC environments on Google Cloud to Nutanix on Azure.During a cloud migration, both applications and databases are often migrated. A database is simply a collection of information, or data, that is stored digitally in a computer, on a server, or in the cloud. Applications (or apps) are essentially software packages that allow users to perform specific tasks on a computer or mobile device.


## Consequences
IaaS - An infrastructure-as-a-service service model is when cloud provider(s) host the infrastructure components that provide compute, storage, networking and virtualization capabilities, which is essentially rented out to organizations who receive on-demand access to these capabilities via the internet. 
PaaS - The platform-as-a-service service model is when a third party supplies the essential elements for software development, testing, execution and upkeep. The “platform” encompasses infrastructure, operating systems, middleware, development environments, and developer tools.
SaaS - The most commonly recognized service model, software-as-a-service is a software licensing and distribution model where full-stack applications are cloud-hosted. The organization manages the applications and data, but the cloud provider manages the servers, storage, networking, and more.

<!-- COMMENTS -->
{
  "comments": []
}
-->