---
id: 004
title: Cache Read-Heavy Database Queries
tags: [architecture, backend]
createdAt: 2026-02-09T08:30:35.556Z 
---

# ADR-004: Cache Read-Heavy Database Queries

Status: Proposed
Scope: Service



## Context
The database is a critical component to application performance. The difference between a well-performing and poor-performing database can be the most impactful factor on overall application performance. Database challenges like query processing speed, cost to scale, and ease of data access make finding an optimized balance difficult. It is difficult to accommodate for all three among many other considerations.

In this article, we discuss database caching, a technique implemented for databases to ease some of these aforementioned challenges. We introduce what database caching is, the benefits of database caching implementation on your data store, and different database caching strategies.

## Decision
Database caching is a buffering technique that stores frequently-queried data in temporary memory. A cache is a high-speed data storage layer which stores a subset of data that is often read requested. This transient storage layer results in future requests for this data to be served up faster than is possible by accessing the primary database.

A database caching strategy assists your primary database by easing the burden it might carry. This is most commonly seen by the rerouting of queries for frequently read data to the cache itself, rather than the primary database. The cache itself, resides in either the database, application, or even as a standalone access layer.

## Consequences
As touched on briefly, database caching improves the performance of a database by making data more easily accessed. The cache acts as a sort of “keyboard short-cut” or “hot-key” for the application to reference data that it frequently is calling upon.

This speedier request can minimize the workload of the database, keeping it from spending inefficient amounts of time doing repetitive tasks. Instead making these tasks more efficient and simplifying data access.

<!-- COMMENTS -->
{
  "comments": []
}
-->