---
id: 007
title: Implement Blue-Green Deployment Strategy
tags: [frontend, ui/ux]
createdAt: 2026-02-09T08:39:39.661Z 
---

# ADR-007: Implement Blue-Green Deployment Strategy

Status: Proposed
Scope: System



## Context
Elastic's Search AI Platform combines world-class search with generative AI to address your search, observability, and security challenges.

Elasticsearch - the industry's most used vector database with an extensive catalog of GenAI integrations - gives you unified access to ML models, connectors, and frameworks through a simple API call. Manage data across sources with enterprise-grade security and build scalable, high-performance apps that keep pace with evolving business needs. Elasticsearch gives you a decade-long head start with a flexible Search AI toolkit and total provisioning flexibility-fully managed on serverless, in the cloud, or on your own infrastructure.

## Decision
Elastic Observability resolves problems faster with open-source, AI-powered observability without limits, that is accurate, proactive and efficient. Get comprehensive visibility into your AWS and hybrid environment through 400+ integrations including Bedrock, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, EC2, Firehose, S3, and more. Achieve interoperability with an open and extensible, OpenTelemetry (OTel) native solution, with enterprise-grade support.

Elastic Security modernizes SecOps with AI-driven security analytics, the future of SIEM. Powered by Elastic's Search AI Platform, its unprecedented speed and scalability equips practitioners to analyze and act across the attack surface, raising team productivity and reducing risk. Elastic's groundbreaking AI and automation features solve real-world challenges. SOC leaders choose Elastic Security when they need an open and scalable solution ready to run on AWS.

## Consequences
Take advantage of Elastic Cloud Serverless - the fastest way to start and scale security, observability, and search solutions without managing infrastructure. Built on the industry-first Search AI Lake architecture, it combines vast storage, compute, low-latency querying, and advanced AI capabilities to deliver uncompromising speed and scale. Users can choose from Elastic Cloud Hosted and Elastic Cloud Serverless during deployment. Try the new Serverless calculator for price estimates:

<!-- COMMENTS -->
{
  "comments": []
}
-->